README.md, before:

![Logo](admin/homematic.png)
# ioBroker HomeMatic ReGaHSS Adapter

![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/hm-rega-installed.svg) ![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/hm-rega-stable.svg) [![NPM version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.hm-rega.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.hm-rega)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.hm-rega.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.hm-rega)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.hm-rega.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.hm-rega/)

Connects HomeMatic CCU "Logic Layer" ("ReGaHSS") to ioBroker.

## Purpose
This Adapter keeps the HomeMatic CCU variables in sync with ioBroker and provides the possibility to start
HomeMatic CCU programs from within ioBroker. Furthermore, this adapter can be used as a "migration helper": you can sync
device/channel names, rooms, functions, and favorites from the CCU to ioBroker (this is one way only, changes in ioBroker
will be overwritten once synced again – so deactivate this features after the first sync).

## Install
This adapter requires one (ore more) already installed and initialized hm-rpc adapter(s) to work.

## Configuration

## FAQ

### What are the ALARM states created in the devices object?
States which end on '_ALARM' are created by the Rega adapter, to represent service messages. The alarm has three 
different states _NO ALARM_, which indicates that there is no related alarm (service message) for the state.
When a service message appears for the related state the state will change to _ALARM_, containing the timestamp 
of the alarm occurrence on the CCU in the last changed timestamp of the state (state.ls). When you change 
the state in ioBroker, this will acknowledge the alarm in the CCU and the service message will be gone. 
The alarm state in ioBroker will change to _ACKNOWLEDGED_ still containing the occurrence timestamp 
in the last changed state, and the timestamp when it has been acknowledged in the states timestamp (state.ts).

#### I have a HomeMatic CCU2/CCU3, how can I add it to the adapter settings?
Within the adapter settings, you add the IP address of your CCU2, then 
* Activate "rfd" for regular HomeMatic devices, 
* Activate "HomeMatic IP" if you use HomeMatic IP devices,
* Activate "Virtual Devices" if you use Groups in HomeMatic (so if you combine e.g. multiple thermostats to a group)


#### If I modify rooms, etc. in HomeMatic, the changes are not applied right away within ioBroker.
Please reload the hm-rega adapter instance, e.g. by clicking on the reload icon of hm-rega.x (actions table) in the Instances tab.
Afterwards, wait about 10-20 seconds and then check both the Enums tab and the Objects (enum.xxx -- make sure you enable the expert mode). If the changes do still not appear, restart ioBroker. Then the changes should be available in ioBroker.

### I want to execute my own scripts on the CCU via ioBroker. Is this possible?
Since version 2.3.0 it is possible to execute your own scripts on the CCU by using the ``sendTo`` command.
E. g. getting the uptime of your CCU by the following script:

```javascript
const upTimeScript = `
    string stderr;
    string stdout;
    system.Exec("cat /proc/uptime | awk '// { printf $1/3600 }'", &stdout, &stderr);
    WriteLine(stdout);`;

sendTo('hm-rega.0', upTimeScript, res => {
    log(JSON.stringify(res), 'info');
});
```

## Changelog
### 2.4.0 (2019-07-03)
* (foxriver76) added possibility to synchronize hidden variables

### 2.3.3 (2019-04-05)
* (foxriver76) added more systeminfo states when syncing duty cycle
* (foxriver76) when setting ts, do it in ms

### 2.3.2 (2019-03-10)
* (foxriver76) when ccu sysvar is nan, replace it by null

### 2.3.1 (2019-03-07)
* (foxriver76) also unescape %0A (\n)
* (foxriver76) remove line break in firmware version

### 2.3.0 (2019-02-07)
* (foxriver76) implemented messagebox

### 2.2.2 (2019-02-04)
* (foxriver76) show correct number of service messages even if automatic checking is enabled

### 2.2.1 (2019-01-29)
* (foxriver76) create alarm states with correct name instead of renaming on restart
* (foxriver76) fix to enable acknowledging servicemessages for all instance types

### 2.2.0 (2019-01-26)
* (foxriver76) reworked alarm states, see FAQ
* (foxriver76) fix where virtual devices were not named

### 2.1.8 (2019-01-24)
* (foxriver76) from now on we are displaying the firmware version instead of coprocessor fw version
* (foxriver76) we are making sure to prevent a CCU3 being exposed as a CCU2
* (foxriver76) fixed renaming of alarms on start

### 2.1.7 (2019-01-21)
* (foxriver76) fixed the bug that all alarms of devices are in hm-rpc rfd instance 
or non existent if no rpc instance existed
* (foxriver76) fix bug where datapoints were not named

### 2.1.6 (2019-01-20)
* (foxriver76) update state when same value is set with another timestamp
* (foxriver76) revert duty cycle script
* (foxriver76) fix for parse errors on -inf values

### 2.1.3 (2019-01-14)
* (foxriver76) also decode string values when setting foreign states
* (foxriver76) add more translations

### 2.1.2 (2019-01-10)
* (foxriver76) fix duty cycle script
* (foxriver76) fix bug where state units were ignored for all except rfd

### 2.1.0 (2019-01-07)
* (foxriver76) usage of adapter-core
* (bluefox) compact mode compatibility

### 2.0.1 (2019-01-01)
* (foxriver76) fix error that prevented setting umlauts to system variables in ioBroker
* (foxriver76) usage and application of eslint 

### 2.0.0 (2018-11-28)
* (foxriver76) Https checkbox added
* (foxriver76) Https can be used instead of http
* (foxriver76) Added possibility to authenticate on API
* (foxriver76) de- and encryption added

### 1.7.2 (2018-07-29)
* (bluefox) Configuration dialog was corrected

### 1.7.1 (2018-06-25)
* (bluefox) Forbidden characters were replaced

### 1.7.0 (2018-01-26)
* (bluefox) Ready for Admin3

### 1.6.6 (2017-09-23)
* (AlGu1) Fix error if Lan Interfaces exits

### 1.6.5 (2017-09-10)
* (AlGu1) Change adapter logging of new values to debug

### 1.6.4 (2017-09-10)
* (AlGu1) Config Settings changed to set defaults after update adapter

### 1.6.3 (2017-09-06)
* (AlGu1) Read values from CCU in raw format and create JSON string and object in adapter

### 1.6.2 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) dutycycle.fn script changed for better compatiblity without ReGaHss Beta version

### 1.6.1 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) Error in script file fixed

### 1.6.0 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) Read DutyCycle and other params from listBidcosInterfaces

### 1.5.0 (2017-06-29)
* (Apollon77) Also update names of states when syncing with CCU

### 1.4.8 (2017-05-24)
* (bluefox) Fix values conversion for CUxD

### 1.4.4 (2017-02-28)
* (Apollon77) small fix (issue #23)

### 1.4.3 (2017-02-01)
* (Apollon77) respect settings and only sync variables and programs if selected in settings (issue #22)

### 1.4.2 (2017-01-30)
* (bluefox) remove error log in CCU by start

### 1.4.1 (2017-01-16)
* (bluefox) merge rooms, functions and favorites with existing one

### 1.4.0 (2017-01-15)
* (jens-maus) Add HMIP support

### 1.3.0 (2016-08-23)
* (bluefox) update states only if changed

### 1.2.1 (2016-07-15)
* (nobody) fix initial read of states

### 1.2.0 (2016-05-27)
* (bluefox) read variables anew if connection of rfd detected
* (bluefox) read alarms
* (bluefox) support of acknowledgment of alarms

### 1.1.1 (2016-05-27)
* (bluefox) fix min/max for variables

### 1.1.0 (2016-04-19)
* (bluefox) change timestamp and last change of states

### 1.0.0 (2016-04-19)
* (bluefox) detect disconnection and handle it

### 0.3.7 (2016-04-18)
* (bluefox) fix error with polling trigger

### 0.3.6 (2016-03-12)
* (bluefox) fix read datapoints

### 0.3.5 (2016-03-12)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.4 (2016-03-09)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.3 (2016-03-01)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape
* (bluefox) add connection state

### 0.3.2 (2016-03-01)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.1 (2016-02-29)
* (bluefox) fix dimmer and blinds values at start

### 0.3.0 (2016-02-28)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.2.1 (2015-03-25)
* (bluefox) fix "\n" in values

### 0.2.0 (2015-03-24)
* (bluefox) implement check init function

### 0.1.16 (2015-01-04)
* (bluefox) catch errors if states deleted

### 0.1.15 (2015-01-03)
* (bluefox) add hm-rpc as dependency

### 0.1.14 (2015-01-03)
* (bluefox) enable npm install

### 0.1.13 (2014-12-11)
* (bluefox) process errors

### 0.1.12 (2014-12-10)
* (bluefox) update devices if hm-rpc updates the device list

### 0.1.11 (2014-12-06)
* (bluefox) update devices if hm-rpc updates the device list

### 0.1.10 (2014-11-21)
* (bluefox) support of new naming concept with no parents and children

### 0.1.9 (2014-11-11)
* (bluefox) fix error with stopping adapter

### 0.1.8 (2014-10-22)
* (bluefox) fix error with scripts
* (bluefox) add gruntfile.js and remove jscs warnings

### 0.1.7
* (Bluefox, Hobbyquaker) fix bug if no programs or variables exist

### 0.1.6
* (hobbyquaker) added common.role for variables
* (hobbyquaker) get state values
* (hobbyquaker) queue device/channel renaming

### 0.1.5
* (hobbyquaker) enum fixes

### 0.1.4
* (hobbyquaker) fixes
* (hobbyquaker) add settings ui

### 0.1.3
* (hobbyquaker) common.children vs children

### 0.1.2
* (hobbyquaker) Fix common.children in getPrograms

### 0.1.1
* (hobbyquaker) Fix common.name attribute

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014-2019 bluefox <dogafox@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2014 hobbyquaker

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

enhance readme for invisible variables

README.md, after:

![Logo](admin/homematic.png)
# ioBroker HomeMatic ReGaHSS Adapter

![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/hm-rega-installed.svg) ![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/hm-rega-stable.svg) [![NPM version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.hm-rega.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.hm-rega)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.hm-rega.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.hm-rega)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.hm-rega.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.hm-rega/)

Connects HomeMatic CCU "Logic Layer" ("ReGaHSS") to ioBroker.

## Purpose
This Adapter keeps the HomeMatic CCU variables in sync with ioBroker and provides the possibility to start
HomeMatic CCU programs from within ioBroker. Furthermore, this adapter can be used as a "migration helper": you can sync
device/channel names, rooms, functions, and favorites from the CCU to ioBroker (this is one way only, changes in ioBroker
will be overwritten once synced again – so deactivate this features after the first sync).

## Install
This adapter requires one (ore more) already installed and initialized hm-rpc adapter(s) to work.

## Configuration

## FAQ

### What are the ALARM states created in the devices object?
States which end on '_ALARM' are created by the Rega adapter, to represent service messages. The alarm has three 
different states _NO ALARM_, which indicates that there is no related alarm (service message) for the state.
When a service message appears for the related state the state will change to _ALARM_, containing the timestamp 
of the alarm occurrence on the CCU in the last changed timestamp of the state (state.ls). When you change 
the state in ioBroker, this will acknowledge the alarm in the CCU and the service message will be gone. 
The alarm state in ioBroker will change to _ACKNOWLEDGED_ still containing the occurrence timestamp 
in the last changed state, and the timestamp when it has been acknowledged in the states timestamp (state.ts).

#### I have a HomeMatic CCU2/CCU3, how can I add it to the adapter settings?
Within the adapter settings, you add the IP address of your CCU2, then 
* Activate "rfd" for regular HomeMatic devices, 
* Activate "HomeMatic IP" if you use HomeMatic IP devices,
* Activate "Virtual Devices" if you use Groups in HomeMatic (so if you combine e.g. multiple thermostats to a group)

#### If I modify rooms, etc. in HomeMatic, the changes are not applied right away within ioBroker.
Please reload the hm-rega adapter instance, e.g. by clicking on the reload icon of hm-rega.x (actions table) in the Instances tab.
Afterwards, wait about 10-20 seconds and then check both the Enums tab and the Objects (enum.xxx -- make sure you enable the expert mode). If the changes do still not appear, restart ioBroker. Then the changes should be available in ioBroker.

### How can I sync the hidden/invisible variables e.g. of HMIP-PSM?
Since version 2.4.0 it is possible to sync hidden variables. For this purpose you have to go to the settings of hm-rega.
At the Sync tab you will find `Invisible variables` when `Variables` is checked.

### I want to execute my own scripts on the CCU via ioBroker. Is this possible?
Since version 2.3.0 it is possible to execute your own scripts on the CCU by using the ``sendTo`` command.
E. g. getting the uptime of your CCU by the following script:

```javascript
const upTimeScript = `
    string stderr;
    string stdout;
    system.Exec("cat /proc/uptime | awk '// { printf $1/3600 }'", &stdout, &stderr);
    WriteLine(stdout);`;

sendTo('hm-rega.0', upTimeScript, res => {
    log(JSON.stringify(res), 'info');
});
```

## Changelog
### 2.4.0 (2019-07-03)
* (foxriver76) added possibility to synchronize hidden variables

### 2.3.3 (2019-04-05)
* (foxriver76) added more systeminfo states when syncing duty cycle
* (foxriver76) when setting ts, do it in ms

### 2.3.2 (2019-03-10)
* (foxriver76) when ccu sysvar is nan, replace it by null

### 2.3.1 (2019-03-07)
* (foxriver76) also unescape %0A (\n)
* (foxriver76) remove line break in firmware version

### 2.3.0 (2019-02-07)
* (foxriver76) implemented messagebox

### 2.2.2 (2019-02-04)
* (foxriver76) show correct number of service messages even if automatic checking is enabled

### 2.2.1 (2019-01-29)
* (foxriver76) create alarm states with correct name instead of renaming on restart
* (foxriver76) fix to enable acknowledging servicemessages for all instance types

### 2.2.0 (2019-01-26)
* (foxriver76) reworked alarm states, see FAQ
* (foxriver76) fix where virtual devices were not named

### 2.1.8 (2019-01-24)
* (foxriver76) from now on we are displaying the firmware version instead of coprocessor fw version
* (foxriver76) we are making sure to prevent a CCU3 being exposed as a CCU2
* (foxriver76) fixed renaming of alarms on start

### 2.1.7 (2019-01-21)
* (foxriver76) fixed the bug that all alarms of devices are in hm-rpc rfd instance 
or non existent if no rpc instance existed
* (foxriver76) fix bug where datapoints were not named

### 2.1.6 (2019-01-20)
* (foxriver76) update state when same value is set with another timestamp
* (foxriver76) revert duty cycle script
* (foxriver76) fix for parse errors on -inf values

### 2.1.3 (2019-01-14)
* (foxriver76) also decode string values when setting foreign states
* (foxriver76) add more translations

### 2.1.2 (2019-01-10)
* (foxriver76) fix duty cycle script
* (foxriver76) fix bug where state units were ignored for all except rfd

### 2.1.0 (2019-01-07)
* (foxriver76) usage of adapter-core
* (bluefox) compact mode compatibility

### 2.0.1 (2019-01-01)
* (foxriver76) fix error that prevented setting umlauts to system variables in ioBroker
* (foxriver76) usage and application of eslint 

### 2.0.0 (2018-11-28)
* (foxriver76) Https checkbox added
* (foxriver76) Https can be used instead of http
* (foxriver76) Added possibility to authenticate on API
* (foxriver76) de- and encryption added

### 1.7.2 (2018-07-29)
* (bluefox) Configuration dialog was corrected

### 1.7.1 (2018-06-25)
* (bluefox) Forbidden characters were replaced

### 1.7.0 (2018-01-26)
* (bluefox) Ready for Admin3

### 1.6.6 (2017-09-23)
* (AlGu1) Fix error if Lan Interfaces exits

### 1.6.5 (2017-09-10)
* (AlGu1) Change adapter logging of new values to debug

### 1.6.4 (2017-09-10)
* (AlGu1) Config Settings changed to set defaults after update adapter

### 1.6.3 (2017-09-06)
* (AlGu1) Read values from CCU in raw format and create JSON string and object in adapter

### 1.6.2 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) dutycycle.fn script changed for better compatiblity without ReGaHss Beta version

### 1.6.1 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) Error in script file fixed

### 1.6.0 (2017-09-05)
* (AlGu1) Read DutyCycle and other params from listBidcosInterfaces

### 1.5.0 (2017-06-29)
* (Apollon77) Also update names of states when syncing with CCU

### 1.4.8 (2017-05-24)
* (bluefox) Fix values conversion for CUxD

### 1.4.4 (2017-02-28)
* (Apollon77) small fix (issue #23)

### 1.4.3 (2017-02-01)
* (Apollon77) respect settings and only sync variables and programs if selected in settings (issue #22)

### 1.4.2 (2017-01-30)
* (bluefox) remove error log in CCU by start

### 1.4.1 (2017-01-16)
* (bluefox) merge rooms, functions and favorites with existing one

### 1.4.0 (2017-01-15)
* (jens-maus) Add HMIP support

### 1.3.0 (2016-08-23)
* (bluefox) update states only if changed

### 1.2.1 (2016-07-15)
* (nobody) fix initial read of states

### 1.2.0 (2016-05-27)
* (bluefox) read variables anew if connection of rfd detected
* (bluefox) read alarms
* (bluefox) support of acknowledgment of alarms

### 1.1.1 (2016-05-27)
* (bluefox) fix min/max for variables

### 1.1.0 (2016-04-19)
* (bluefox) change timestamp and last change of states

### 1.0.0 (2016-04-19)
* (bluefox) detect disconnection and handle it

### 0.3.7 (2016-04-18)
* (bluefox) fix error with polling trigger

### 0.3.6 (2016-03-12)
* (bluefox) fix read datapoints

### 0.3.5 (2016-03-12)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.4 (2016-03-09)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.3 (2016-03-01)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape
* (bluefox) add connection state

### 0.3.2 (2016-03-01)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.3.1 (2016-02-29)
* (bluefox) fix dimmer and blinds values at start

### 0.3.0 (2016-02-28)
* (bluefox) remove deprecated unescape

### 0.2.1 (2015-03-25)
* (bluefox) fix "\n" in values

### 0.2.0 (2015-03-24)
* (bluefox) implement check init function

### 0.1.16 (2015-01-04)
* (bluefox) catch errors if states deleted

### 0.1.15 (2015-01-03)
* (bluefox) add hm-rpc as dependency

### 0.1.14 (2015-01-03)
* (bluefox) enable npm install

### 0.1.13 (2014-12-11)
* (bluefox) process errors

### 0.1.12 (2014-12-10)
* (bluefox) update devices if hm-rpc updates the device list

### 0.1.11 (2014-12-06)
* (bluefox) update devices if hm-rpc updates the device list

### 0.1.10 (2014-11-21)
* (bluefox) support of new naming concept with no parents and children

### 0.1.9 (2014-11-11)
* (bluefox) fix error with stopping adapter

### 0.1.8 (2014-10-22)
* (bluefox) fix error with scripts
* (bluefox) add gruntfile.js and remove jscs warnings

### 0.1.7
* (Bluefox, Hobbyquaker) fix bug if no programs or variables exist

### 0.1.6
* (hobbyquaker) added common.role for variables
* (hobbyquaker) get state values
* (hobbyquaker) queue device/channel renaming

### 0.1.5
* (hobbyquaker) enum fixes

### 0.1.4
* (hobbyquaker) fixes
* (hobbyquaker) add settings ui

### 0.1.3
* (hobbyquaker) common.children vs children

### 0.1.2
* (hobbyquaker) Fix common.children in getPrograms

### 0.1.1
* (hobbyquaker) Fix common.name attribute

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014-2019 bluefox <dogafox@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2014 hobbyquaker

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
